# Self Evaluation Quiz (19 Questions)
This is a 19 question self-evaluation in a survey format. Please be sure to answer honestly and reflect on your practical training. Each answer is equally weighted so you will not lose points based on your response in the survey portion. There is also one essay question and no time limit on the assignment.

## 19 Question
One of my projects this semester was to design and implement the new features for client interactive information system. Each new feature is seens as a small project in our working culture. It included not only the UI/UX webpage elements design, but also the whole system overview. Most of the intiatives of those projects were from client requirements. When analyzing the client's new requirements, I looked into what impact the new project will bring to the existing information system. For example, how many services the data flow of the new project might go through, including detailed data input design and data output design of the communication amoung the services/modules. By identifying the key factors and potential challenging issues, we then had workshop meetings with stakeholders to find out the solution to address those issues and refine our deisgn. In the implementation phase, in order to deliver quality code to the project in time, our scrum team took agile approach to manage the project. One of the tools I would recommend is Kanban (or Agile board), which helped us to visualize the project progress so that any blocks might be spotted earlier. I felt so grateful because it was a huge success to apply this knowledge points from the SYS 5013 system design course at Trine to real-world project.
[x] Submitted Sunday, November 24, 2024, 6:12 PM


# Final Reflection Dis - by Hang Yang - Sunday, Nov 2, 2024, 9:26 PM
In the past 2024 Fall semester, the course SYS5013 System Engineering Analysis impressed me a lot by its inspiring discussion topics, well-organized textbook and reading materials, as well as the design project assignments. The course instructor Hitam Zidan also gave a fantastic presentation on the intialization of system design using agile approach during the seated classes. 

From the begining of the course, I've been surprised by the hand-on design assignments. It's really helpful for me to strengthen the knowledge points into practices. In the design of data flow diagram (DFD), I learnt how to draft a design prototype in a top-down order: from context diagram (also known as level 0) iteratively decomposing into detailed leven n. While in the uniformal modeling language (UML) use case diagram design, the dialog-pattern design really inspired me to design the system as you are the actual end user. This could help give us a better mindset from a high level overview before we push the implementation of low level design details. During the human computer interaction (HCI) topic, especially for UI/UX part, it included a lot of detailed handy work to build the website or mobile app design pages. Even a small portion of the design input matters, such as the size, placement of a small button or the font and color of textarea. 

Throughout the course, there was a strong emphasis on the value of agile approach, communication and retrospective feedback. These practices are critical for identifying potential issues early, such as miscommunication, design flaws, or unintended bugs, which, if left unaddressed, could lead to increased costs and inefficiencies. By fostering clear communication and embracing changes, teams can be more adaptive and avoid costly mistakes and ensure alignment, ultimately resulting in more effective project outcomes and optimized resources. This approach not only saves time and budget but also enhances the overall quality and success of the project.

Grorapid Labs. (2024, October 17). What is System Analysis?- Steps, Importance & Implementation. grorapidlabs. https://www.grorapidlabs.com/blog/what-is-system-analysis-steps-importance-implementation#:~:text=System%20Analysis%20can%20help%20companies,resulting%20in%20better%20overall%20efficiency.


# Replies
* by Nishit De - Sunday, November 24, 2024, 6:08 PM
Thanks for your sharing on the past semester learning and work experience. It is amazing to see how you convert the knowledge points learnt from the classroom to real-world projects in your domain. I do agree that those detailed information system concepts are more than valuable to us comparing to practical work tasks. Sometimes, I hesitate to think further when encounting issues in my study or work. Finally I recognize that it would hurt if we always prioritize the task completion speed and time first than its quality. By focusing on the textbook, reading materials and discussion, I begin to delve into background computing and information mechanism and that helps a lot.

* by Seowon Mun - Sunday, November 17, 2024, 10:21 PM
It is quite inspiring to read your summary on how to apply the tools and skills learnt from Strategic Marketing Planning and Business Ethics courses to your daily work. It is really interesting to me that what tools you have learnt in the Strategic Marketing Planning course that help you to collect and analyze the customer needs. This semester I took the System Engineering Analysis course which also guided us how to gather information to evaluate and analyze customer requirement. I could still remember that the discussion on information gathering approaches was really hot in the classroom, especially on the interactive approaches like workshops, interviews, and surveys.