one
hey welcome back everybody or not
welcome back this is week one up in the
air podcast Dr Brandon McIver and I have
my great guests
cyber defense
extraordinaire Professor extraordinaire
my man Andrew how you doing man how you
doing I'm doc how you doing man I'm
doing good man you know we share that
Philly uh excuse me that PA that PA
Pride you know Andy you know he teaches
in Philly he grew up uh right outside of
Philly uh we share that and um before we
get started I just want to thank you for
ending my career with a bang man
um what you what you and your team did
right was amazing and the fact that it
was a Pennsylvania Squad it meant the
world to me
um
because you know every all good things
come to an end so
um you know I I joke and we call
ourselves Legends right because we
pulled something off
um in in my air Operation Center that
nobody had ever done
um before they did it before but it
wasn't it wasn't as good it wasn't
smooth it wasn't documented it wasn't
real world we did it right
um we did it right this time so with all
that being said I brought Andrew on the
podcast because he is an expert in this
area there are very few cyber Defenders
on the planet
you heard me there are very few cyber
Defenders on the planet there's a lot of
cyber security Bubbas but there are very
few cyber defense
guys
what do you think Andrews
I I'm sure a lot of people claim to be
cyber defense because I'm being blue
teams all the time but whether they are
or not
I don't know but I think you're probably
right I think more people think they are
and they're really not
yeah so so here's the funny thing right
um I was Deputy CIO right since I've
retired I've been Deputy CIO I've been
an infrastructure manager and I was the
top security Guy where I was right and
the first thing I learned is that you
gotta have there's no shame in being
cyber security right you got to have a
cyber security program right
um because bad cyber security programs
are like guys like Andrew will show up
right and he'll go uh let me see your
logs and guess what again
yeah logs what's that or or we don't had
a space on our on our uh on our sand to
store our logs okay uh let me get your
network uh baselines
what do you mean I I'm a I'm an admin I
know the Baseline of my system and then
you just kind of face palm and you go
you call your family and you're gonna be
like look uh I was only going to be out
here for about five days but it looked
like it's gonna be about three weeks
right or eight eight let me see your
infrastructure drawings let me see your
let me see your network maps and they're
like 20 years oh yeah yeah yeah we got
something from like seven years ago and
I'm like what change control
configuration oh version three you're on
12 you're right it it's crazy right
right and and I think that happens
Andrew because
the value of cyber security is is a lot
of firms try to get away with using
their Network guys their infrastructure
guys and make them security minded
right and they call that a cyber
security program but the reality is is
option security or juxtaposed they are
meant to be different and separate in
every way you need a group of paranoid
people right to keep you out of trouble
right
you need to vote uh budget and Personnel
to that because sure you know Network
folks Network admins they can do a
certain level of security but you need
dedicated people to to be on a 24 7 365
or else Something's Gonna Fall for the
cracks right but I think like you said I
think a lot of companies want a penny
pinch and they don't invest in security
when they should
right and and security is expensive
right so so one of the things I try to
tell folks is like hey everybody doesn't
need a Lamborghini for a security
program right
um You need a security program that fits
your organization that fix fits your
budget so if you're dealing with like a
low budget organization right
um and they needed to build a cyber
security program well what do you think
well I mean uh you don't need I mean
there's open source tools out there and
free free tools they can use they don't
need to buy the latest and greatest the
new hotness uh tool that's gonna you
know solve other problems it doesn't
really exist it's silver bullet that we
joke about inside right it doesn't
really exist there's certain tools out
there that help but no one no one tool
is going to solve all your problems see
you no matter how big or small your
Enterprise is you'd have to devote time
energy and of course money to your
security program or else you're gonna be
the next person on the news that got
breached and your customers generally
speaking so you just gotta sometimes
just
understand that there's there's going to
be times where you're gonna you're gonna
need people and it's gonna take some
investment right yeah whether you're big
or small doesn't matter or anywhere in
between yep so so one of the things um
isc2 is is teaching uh this the special
isc2 cissp Club you know uh one thing
they're teaching to us is you know how
to how to bridge that how to make that
relationship with the CFO right
um because that's going to be kind of
your best friend as you go to
characterize
the cost of cyber security meaning the
cost of doing cyber security versus the
cost of not doing cyber security and I
think Andrew that's what you were kind
of hitting
yeah it's funny you mentioned that
because I have my freshman students
where I teach at Drexel I created a
assignment
um where I had them write the CFO memo
saying we need to implement these
security measures because of you know
XYZ and it's just it kind of kills two
birds one stone because they're they're
relaying they're not in cyber and cyber
defense to see if it was to make you
know money decisions uh Chief Financial
officers make money decisions and
they're also being brief because he's
he's
he or she is a c-sui you know um level
executive they need to understand the
facts and as brief a memo as possible so
I'm having them develop their
professional I guess communication as
well as relaying hey we need these
controls or else we're open to these
vulnerabilities and this is why you
should invest in US my team
so so here's the thing man that's a
great assignment right because one of
the things that get lost in bachelor's
programs and Master's programs is hey if
you're getting a bachelor's degree or a
master's degree in I.T and or cyber
security you're not going to really have
your hands on the keyboard right uh guys
who have their hands on the keyboard
they have no need for college right they
are artists they're Craftsmen they're
Architects right they're not going to be
in college per se right they're
operators right they're going to get
their skills vocationally so I think
that's really important executive
communication is important right
um so so the reason why I wanted to have
this talk with you is the students are
going to figure out here in a couple
weeks I go on a classic rant about
incident response and everything that's
wrong
man I am the best Rancher ever um Peter
Griffin is probably the only person that
could rant harder than me
um but I did this huge rant and students
it's going to be great you're going to
love it um you know the angry the angry
I.T executive right
um but the but the thing is is I've been
through incident response as a
one-strike person with like no with like
20 I'm 21 years old and or 20 when I had
one stripe I was like 2019 but I've also
been a part of it as a dog on a flight
Commander where I got so many people and
so many opinions that I got to tell
everybody like hey everybody be quiet
you know just you know be be nice on
YouTube right and um and let's talk
about this objectively right everybody
stop protecting yourself it's already
happened right we've already stepped in
poop right that's what we need to do but
one thing I've noticed is is sometimes
the problem's been real big and I'll ask
my boss I'm like yo we need to bring in
cyber Defenders
we got uh two cissps and five people
with Security Plus what do you mean we
got cyber Defenders I'm like nah you
have no idea
um Andrew what's a cyber Defender
so uh let's pick that apart a little bit
so let's unpack it um cyber right so the
rental cyber obviously we're dealing
with the electronic communications
things of that nature and Defender to me
that means it's synonymous with
protecting something right so you're
protecting cyber right you're protecting
the network and the assets and points on
that Network
um so I'm not sure I'll just an operator
a business professional whatever it may
be his soul goal or one of their goals
on their job is to defend and protect
the assets they're trying to safeguard
on that Network
no yeah real simple right
um and and let me make it let me make it
practical right for the least common
denominator check this out Andrew me and
you somebody put a price on our head
right we could hire security
or I could hire Defender
what's the difference
this analogy okay so this metaphor
someone's putting a head hit out on you
and you want to hire security or
Defender
right um
what you think
I've never heard anything freeze it's
quite like this and you know trying to
create a metaphor for what we do
um
is this a trick question
it's not it's not right so so it's not
right so so I I see it as a I see it as
a put in a security system on your house
right a really good security system
um you could have a security response
that goes along with that security
system you can hire a security guard
with a gate you could put a moat around
your house right these are all security
type of things however when them boys
come come by like you know you ever see
Scarface or you ever see like a old
movie when the boys come to get you and
they start jumping the gate where they
they they come to Ram the drawbridge
right and they you know you need people
who are going to take up bow and arrow
you're gonna need people to shoot back
you're gonna need to defend the area not
just run security right and it's not
minimizing cyber security because door
locks are meant to keep honest people
honest right but if there's a cat
burglar you're gonna need a little bit
more right so if you got the Crown Jewel
in your house right and it didn't mean
anything by that you're gonna hire a
black suit guy with the glasses that's
got a pistol got two side arms that's
going to be standing in front of the
crown jewel versus just having a really
good security system so that's kind of
that that's kind of how I measure it
right
um yeah I see what you're trying to do
you try to differentiate between cyber
security and defensive cyber security
right yeah there's the difference yeah
yeah and and think about cost too right
um one of the ways you save money is by
putting in a really really good security
system versus hiring somebody to defend
something and that's why we're like I
need to bring cyber defenders in hey you
guys aren't cheap right
um you know how big do you think is a
good cyber defense team
depends on the environment you're
working in right
um
I mean my team as you know was probably
10 or 12 strong but we were dealing with
a lot of endpoints and yeah
different enclaves things like that so
we needed the Manpower
um but it could vary I think I think the
short answer is it varies depending on
what your permission is what your goals
are how many endpoints or you know hosts
are on your network
so I think you can get away with maybe a
team of three to four with one of those
being the kind of leader of of the group
or all the way up to a security
operations center which could be dozens
depending on how large your company is
copy
um what are some of the roles
um that are that are in a cyber defense
team that's different than a cyber
security team
so you can go like two ways with this
you can go hosts and you can go Network
so your host analysts are going to be
the ones focused more on the endpoints
themselves right the the workstations of
the employees so to speak right so
they're going to be looking for things
on those hosts on those endpoints they
look kind of odd look at a place whereas
Network operators network security
analysts maybe you're looking for things
across the wire that are going between
these endpoints that doesn't look quite
right they're more focused on the I
guess the bigger picture uh you know
macro versus the micro of the hosts so
uh two different negative career paths
you can go my my opinion is post
security or network security within say
a security operations
and then of course you have your
management levels and things like that
so there's a lot that goes into it of
course but for uh for fully functioning
stock to operate you need both the doers
and the overseers of the doers perfect
perfect so so let's get to why we're
here right
um you know what was really cool is I
never really understood the difference
between cyber security and cyber defense
tools right
um because I always thought cyber
defense tools could be employed by cyber
security folks until yet ncoic
non-commissioned officer in charge he
tapped me on the shoulder right he got
the big he got the big old ncoic
mustache tell them I said that man it's
classic
um and he goes he goes captain
I'ma save your life
and I go talk to me he said Security on
you
he said it's free he said it's free and
he said you'll be hard-pressed to find
something better than it
and I went okay and I've been toying
around with security onion ever since
and the way I see it one second
so security Union right
um security onion to me is like
is like the Kali Linux on the blue side
yeah right yeah it's like a suite of
tools right that if you could actually
learn how to use them you'd be dangerous
so that's why I just brought you one
right because I I consider you kind of
an expert to bridge the gap between
those two things talk to me a little bit
about you know cyber defense tools
versus cyber security tools and if
there's any touch points
I'm glad you brought up a comparison of
Kali Linux because catalytics comes with
like 600 plus tools most of which are
designed for uh you know pen testing red
team offensive security right so
um whereas you know security Union
there's a suite of tools mainly geared
towards the defense so protecting again
protecting the network and the assets
within it so
um I think we'll start let's back it up
to the definition of cyber security
versus defensive cyber again it's a
cyber security
that large category that a lot of things
with offensive defense and fit into
defensive obviously being the protection
or prevention side of the house you're
basically using the defensive tools to
prevent protect or you know limit risk
data loss you name it right that's
that's where the defensive schools come
into to play so you're using those tools
essentially to limit the chances that an
attacker have at getting what they want
which is either access to your network
information within it maintaining
persistence on the network meaning they
have a you know a long time to play to
have access to that Network escalate the
privileges so on and so forth right you
want to prevent that from happening so
what do you do right you have them in
firewalls you implement IDs IPS
intruding detection Protection Systems
so you have rules that'll alert you it's
a nefarious activity or the rules
that'll actually prevent that activity
you want to demand ACLS or Access
Control lists all the things in a
defender's toolbox to help prevent
person or that entity from getting
access to unauthorized access that's a
key word right to your network and and
the things within it
so that's just to differentiate set the
stage for difference between cyber
security tools and defensive cyber pools
draw that Line in the Sand right
perfect perfect uh you want to jump into
like defensive tools
yes I mentioned a few IDs IPS so uh just
to go you know security onion there's a
tool called Suricata  security onion that
is an IDs IPS so again you can write
rules you can write rules and I for
example certain IP addresses so they'll
either be blocked
um in an IPS case or it'll be alerted in
an IDs case
um so that way a network Defender can go
look into that activity further
investigate hopefully it's it's nothing
but if it's something then we'll look
further into it and do an investigation
but the intent is right that you're
trying to stop things from from having
stop stopping bad as we call it that's
just something we have right something
bad from happening
um because if that does happen then you
have to deal with it right in the form
of ir instant response
so um again the intent the goal of
network Defenders is to prevent
bad things to happen from happening on
their Network and that's why they're
using their tools firewall is actually
going to filter traffic and block block
traffic that is deemed Unworthy of
entering the network in the first place
or traversing it in the first place
um ACLS are going to
um as the name implies Access Control
lists those are going to either deny or
permit access to certain vlans or
network for example virtual local area
networks and you can set those up on
routers so you know echoles can be
silicon routers
uh let's see what else do we have uh
what about what about like um
elasticsearch and uh log aggregators
like to talk to me about like when you
respond to an incident right when IDs
and IPS isn't working when firewalls
seem to not be there that maybe there's
a threat low low and slow right what are
some of the tools you you use to remove
somebody to to detect inspect detect and
remove somebody from the network
yes that's a great point right so I want
you to text an indicator compromise once
you know that there's something not that
shouldn't be something that's on your
number that shouldn't be you have to
clear or remove that activity right so
you I mean that it all depends on what
you find but if you come in in a flavor
of you know
um you know cutting ties to a certain IP
address that is beaconing out and that
Beacon is sending information out to a
potential apt for example advanced
persistent threats so you could you
could basically block or Blacklist that
IP address for example which is only a
temporary fix because IP addresses we
know are not necessarily static so they
could just circumvent that by by using
another IP
um but there's certain you know certain
indicators of compromise you can look
for that are known
um in in the field going to be Intel I
think you've had you know you got you
had Professor napolon he could probably
go into this better than I because he's
more Intel minded but you can look for
certain things on your network that have
been seen in the wild before
by by the Intel community and if you
find them you remove them right you
remove files that shouldn't be there you
remove those IPS and shouldn't be like I
mentioned
um and you clear you clear the activity
but there's a kind of a fine line
between when you should do do the
clearing actions and when you shouldn't
because sometimes you may want to keep
them on your network and monitor and
kind of see what they're up to right if
you want to get Intel gain you might
leave them there for for a little while
assuming they're not doing anything so
detrimental to your network that is uh
basically you can't come back from so
there is there is a time where you need
to ask yourself should we just watch
what they're doing before we clear their
activity or do we just clear right away
and get them out as soon as possible
so so you're one of the cool people in
the world that does Cyber defense hey
what about the movies right where the
hackers on the network and then the
Defenders are like oh I just saw them
run to this IP address let me
I'm gonna get them right there and and
you know what I tell people yeah yeah
yeah so what I tell people is like some
of that stuff is true and some of that
stuff isn't true right so like so like
sometimes like you said you can see
something beaconing or sometimes you can
see a file not a service not behaving
right or or sometimes like
I I don't know but there's certain
indicators that you can see where you'll
actually see like an active attack like
you said you're watching somebody so I
tell people there's a shred of Truth in
that right but it's never as interesting
and dynamic as you think right like it's
it's their ex-filter they're they're
taking data out you find out where
they're taking data out right you block
it and then like
two days later you'll see that they
moved around so you're like okay they
got access here and here so let me look
at the hacker methodology it means I
need to check out this this and this
because the only way they can get from
point A to point D is that they had to
do at least B or C right they begin to
give themselves away and then they give
away deeper accesses so like there's a
shred of Truth in it but have you ever
had any like cool moments where you're
like yo I got a legit bad guy in here
and I need to save you know company X
from going down
unfortunately not it's how Hollywood
portrays cyber security and hackers
quote unquote as like in a dark room
they type in a mile and on the keyboard
and immediately getting into a system
like without any type of reconnaissance
or you're going through the the kill
chain right somehow that like Hollywood
has portrayed this in a way that is
unrealistic in most cases I should say I
don't know in other things but
um in my experience however I've not
found anything that's been like whoa
this is you know this is all level the
National Security concerns or and I
guess I should say that this is a good
thing I had not found this because
my my job would be a lot harder in our
country and the companies I work for
would be a lot more trouble but uh
suffice to say a lot of what I do is
process oriented it's team oriented it's
it's slow moving but it's methodical and
and very um well well oiled and you
follow a process because that process is
tried and true and you're not doing the
Wild Wild West by typing away the
keyboard going rogue and creating
effects on the network that you didn't
intend to create right the last thing
you want to do is going to protect and
defend and you've now done something
actually only or otherwise that has shut
you know shut down part of the network
or break the box or something so yeah
um in my experience I say it's boring
but it's it's just a process right and
you rely on your team because no one
person can do it all no one person knows
all the tools and it takes a village so
yeah cyber cyber is hard right right I I
was the OIC for the one of the Premier
hacking units in the entire world right
I was an apt right it just yeah a good
guy or a bad guy it depends on who's
talking right I was in the APT and let
me tell you something it's boring it's
hard right and you know the advice that
I give people is opsec and cyber hygiene
are worth their weight in gold they're
bigger than any detection or protection
tool
opsec shut your mouth right like stop
mixing your personal with your work
right and good hygiene if you see it and
it doesn't look right don't click it
right some emails uh if they're you you
know what if you get enough emails that
becomes easier and easier right because
hey if this email is worth it somebody
will send it twice I'm not saying I do
that but I am saying I do that from time
to time right like it needs motivation I
need to see how bad you know you want it
right so I'm gonna say no just to say no
and and see what you come back with
right just cyber hygiene right like no
no being only being on the red side of
the house I learned that cyber hygiene
and and cyber hygiene is user Behavior
it's admin Behavior admin Behavior right
patching uh scanning uh stigging right
like my first question with cyber
security people is I ask them if they
know what a Stig is
and if they say no right if they say no
it goes in my box that this isn't
necessarily A prepared
like they they don't live in a world of
preparedness because stigs are a pain in
the behind but if you Stig a system or
hardening right if you harden a system
that's real to me that's real cyber
security skills right we may not need to
call you in Andrew if we're sticking
right like if we're if we got stigs and
a good patching program are worth their
weight in gold right so man and it was
good to have you on man
um
you know
man I wish we had more time I'ma
definitely get you on another one of
these I know you gotta go out of town
but man it was great to have you um
trying as lucky to have you the students
are lucky to have you hey look this man
up right uh the world is run by uh those
who show up the world is run by those
who speak up and the world is run and
you get put in position to Run the World
by the relationships you know so one
thing I always tell Shannon brother is
the good thing about having an adjunct
faculty is that we still in the mud
that's right we're still in the mud
right we're not sitting in a lab and
reading books and building curriculum
right and and talking about the good old
days nah we're still in the mud right
and um man I appreciate you you know
taking time out of your day
um I know you're on East Coast time so
thank you
um any any last words we got about 30
seconds left uh on the time hack what
you got no I mean I just want to shout
out to you for for running these
podcasts and thank you for inviting me
on one that's it's been a pleasure and I
appreciate my time and trying and it
wasn't for you I wouldn't be here at
trying so thank you for that and um kind
of just to wrap up what you said at the
end there cyber security and cyber
defense can be boring but it's
absolutely essential so
um don't sleep well
that's right all right my man take care
I'll see you around all right